# Project Synopsis

Crab fisheries bring home hundreds of millions of dollars to the Pacific Northwest and tie deeply in to coastal cultures, recreationally, culinarily, and emotionally. The snow crab fishery of the East Bering Sea was worth ~$200 USD up until its collapse in 2021. The collapse of such a large fishery that was managed pretty well by federal agencies and local departments caused quite the scramble for understanding. What has been cautiously correlated is a trend in ocean temperature warming. This can have sweeping effects on the ecology of the East Bering Sea, and factors such as disease, diet, and metabolism could be afflicted by this rise in temperature. Disease, the immune response, and how that works with metabolism is what this study of ours aimed to dive into, using hairy shore crab, H. oregonensis, in a lab setting.

We started our project with the question of how does temperature impact the immune response of hairy shore crabs. Our alternative hypothesis was that increased temperature would induce a stress response, expressed as lower haemocyte counts and higher glucose, respiration, and righting times. We used these metrics for their relevance to the stress response, and thus, hoped that they would display reactions in our crabs to their treatments, which are to follow:

This study used 18 crabs in treatments along with several as control. Of the 18 treatment crabs, 6 were maintained in a cold (13 C) water with mud tank, 6 were maintained in a warm (27 C) water with mud tank, and 6 were contained with a warm (27 C) water and no mud tank. The control were kept in a cold (13 C) water and no mud tank. Mud entailed sediment collected from a shoreline stream in Seattle, Wa, with the hope that there existed a community of parasites within the mud samples in the two tanks with mud. In each tank, 2 shells were provided for hiding. The two heat treatments were created to display response to increased temperature, either with or without mud to impose an infection risk. The cold treatments provided a comparison on effects of heat vs mud. 4 measurements were taken: haemocyte count by haemolymph extraction and reading under haemocytomer, glucose levels using haemolymgh extraction, respiration by way of resazurin reduction fluorescence. Results were compiled and analyzed in excel without testing for stricly for significance due to the small sample size

The heat treatments had the highest haemocyte counts. In week 1, the heat and mud treatment crabs had a much higher haemocyte count than the other treatments, which were more even. By week 2, the concentrations among the groups evened out but heat and mud treatment still had highest counts followed by heat only. Respiration was highest in the cold and mud treatments during both weeks, followed by the heat only treatment and heat and mud treated crabs having the lowest respiration. Glucose levels rose across the board from week 1 to week 2, but were also highest in the cold and mud treatment for both weeks. Followed by the heat and mud treatment, and then heat only treatment, in week 2. Finally, righting times increased from week 1 to week 2, and were highest in the heat and mud treatment both weeks. In week 2, the cold and mud treated crabs had a higher average righting time than the control crabs while the heat only crabs had a lower righting time.

Overall the data might indicate that heat and mud induce different effects on the crabs. Seeing that respiration and glucose levels were highest in the cold and mud treatment might point to there being parasites present in the mud sample that induced stress response. The higher righting time and haemocyte count in heat and mud treatment might show that the heat effected muscular or activity functioning. These results are not statistically persuasive but do provide a hint that heat and parasites confounded can induce stress response in shore crabs.

